But then I think that most of you will
prefer Visual Studio Code because
you're more used to that IDE,
it's the cool IDE in town.
So, let's see how to do the same, the
project directly in Visual Studio Code.
I can keep it minimized or
something like that, I will close chrome.
So, back in VS Code,
how do you create a flutter project?
First, remember that we need the plugins,
so
you need to go the extension and
install the flutter extension, so
you need to have the flutter extension and
install and enable.
When you have that, you need to go
to the view command palette, or
use the shortcut that we're already
used to in Visual Studio Code.
And you just start typing flutter and
you will see a couple of commands
available for flutter,
including creating a new project,okay?
So I'm going to create a new project,
and I can pick here which kind of
template do I wanna use, application,
module, package, plugin, skeleton.
A skeleton will also give you a List
View Detail View flutter application.
Anyway, we are going to
create an application,
it's a default application that
we got in Android Studio, okay?
So application, and
okay where do you wanna store that?
I'm going to store that probably here,
and I will submit, I will publish
this into GitHub in a minute.
So you will be able to get my code or
follow my code from GitHub,
if you want to.
By doing this from scratch,
what's the project name?
I'm going to call this coffee_masters,
that's gonna be the name of our app.
You can use underscore or you can join
the two words, it's just the same, okay?
So if you wanna just say coffeemasters,
it will work.
So, you press Enter, and
that will actually create
The project,
you can see it's running something,
it's using actually the SDK.
The first time you do that,
is probably Visual Studio Code will
try to locate your flutter SDK.
If it's not finding your flutter
SDK in the normal places,
it will ask you to locate the SDK.
Remember the SDK is
the flutter downloader,
the flutter package that you
downloaded this morning, makes sense?
And here I have something, in fact,
it's the same code that we
have before on Android Studio.
And now instead of looking up,
we need to look down where it says
here a Chrome (web-javascript).
So at the bottom of VS Code,
you can click where it says Chrome,
and you can choose a different device.
You can open an iOS simulator
if you're on a Mac, or
you can open an Android emulator
if you are on any OS with
Android Studio installed, or
you can use the Chrome Web.
For now, I think that if we just
select from Web, it's okay.
How do you run the app?
There are many ways, you can use the run,
debug button you have there
at the top right, VS Code.
You can go to the section for
debugging and select run and debug.
Different ways to do the same, or
you can also select the main, you run,
start debugging.
Because we are in our flutter project,
Visual Studio Code knows
exactly what to do.
So, I'll click run and debug,
and this will launch Chrome,
by the way it's going to use a new
instance of Chrome without plugins.
So if you are using Chrome
as your main browser,
you will see now we will have two
instances of Google Chrome running.
The first time it takes some time,
some seconds, and or minutes.
And finally,
I have the same experience that we saw
before from Android Studio, okay?
We have this little app,
little counter up and running.
In my case, okay?
I can show you that from here
now I have a like floating
toolbar in VS Code that
you can move around,
without floating toolbar you
can pause the current app,
you can stop the current app,
you can reload it, or hot reload it.
But hard reload works automatically
every time you save, okay?
So you don't need to go and click on that
light icon, okay, that lightning icon,
it will work automatically.
For some reason you wanna force a reload,
you can use this button.
And this one, it's an explorer,
an inspector, okay?
We're going to see that later.
Anyway, I'm going to
stop this with a stop.
And now I will pick, just to show you
something different, the iOS simulator.
So now it's going to open the iOS
simulator that comes with Xcode.
So if you have a Mac and if you have
already installed Xcode, this should work.
And when I have selected this,
I can try to run again.
But now I have selected the iOS simulator.
So, the first time will take a couple
of seconds again, so we need to wait.
If it's not working for you at this point,
I will show you what to do.
How you can see what's missing,
so which steps are missing?
As you can see here it
says running Xcode build.
So actually the flutter
SDK is talking to Xcode,
the native iOS IDE to
compile the application.
And now I have on my iPhone,
the same counter application is working,
and it looks like any
other app in the system.
Yeah, it doesn't contain an icon and
that sort of things, but
yeah, it's a default template, it's
actually an app installed on my simulator.
And if I have my own iPhone
connector in this computer,
I might be able to get this
app directly in my iPhone.
There are a couple of steps to be done,
that we can see later.
But you can actually run this
on your own iPhone or iPad.
What about Android?
I can change here, again at the bottom,
remember I'm using the bottom
selector where it says iPhone 13.
I can click there and
select one of the pixels that I have here,
you probably have only one because the
first time you installed Android Studio,
it includes only one emulator.
So I will select that one,
now it's open, the emulator.
And now if I just stop
the previous execution,
that's the iOS execution and
run it again, it will open in Android,
it will compile an Android application,
okay.
It says running Gradle task, Gradle
is a tool coming with Android Studio.
It will compile an Android application and
install that in the emulator.
The first time it takes time,
and as I mentioned before,
it might take half an hour if
you have a slow connection.
So, it's something that happened with
me because I already have the data.
And now I have the same
app running on Android,
it looks like any other Android app, okay?
And it's even installed, okay?
It's that one, it doesn't contain an icon,
okay, but it's actually a real app.
If I connect through USB, my Android
device, and I'm going to do that later,
you will be able to install and
see your app on your own phone as well.
So you can see it's the same app,
it looks exactly the same on iOS,
on Android, and in Chrome, I said website.